---
title: "Research"
permalink: /research/
---
My research interests lie in Complex analysis, Integrable systems, and Special functions. 

## Complex Differential Equation, Nevanlinna theory, Non-integrable equations

My main PhD research overlaps the topics in Nevanlinna theory (Complex analysis) and integrable differential equations (Integrable systems). The motivation mainly stems from most ODEs cannot be solved explicitly. The solvability and integrability (vaguely means that the general solutions can be expressed in some canonical forms) only appear for specific equations, in the case of ODEs, are those with the Painlevè property. Then given non-integrable ODEs, the general solutions are difficult to derive, so we hope to find special solutions. Regarding this special class of solutions, there has been series of work done in the class of meromorphic functions. This is due to many results in complex function theory allow us to understand meromorphic functions to some degree. One common tool is Nevanlinna theory (value distribution theory). With Nevanlinna theory, we can find all meromorphic solutions of certain ODEs; Of course, we cannot apply to all non-integrable equations. One additional assumption is the fact that there are only finitely many Laurent series. This is often called the Eremenko finiteness property. Eremenko proves that any unique top degree autonomous polynomial differential equation with the finiteness property admits all meromorphic solutions in Class W (elliptic functions and their degenerated cases). Halburd and Wang notice that as long as the Laurent series admit finitely many known first few terms (later coefficients are allowed to be free), it is still possible to do some analysis on ODE (in their case, the Hayman equation) to find all meromorphic solutions. My work is to use this extended notion to work with system of ODEs such as the 3D Lotka-Volterra system and the Euler-Poisson equations. One of the main apsect in this extension is to find a small function in Nevanlinna sense imitating the roles of constant of quadratures. What amazing about the ODEs I am working on is that those satisfy the Nevanlinna slow-growth property, which allows us to conclude that the small function is constant in a sense that given a meromorphic function, this small function must be a constant. With this small function, we can find all meromorphic solutions. Further detail regarding this theme can be found in our work on [the Lotka-Volterra system](/publication/2025-04-04-manuscript-title-number-1).

## Special Functions and Difference Equations: Poincarè functions and their branch point patterns

My framework in Difference equations and Special Functions arises in studying the Poincarè functions. Given a difference equation $y(z+1)=R(y(z))$, where $R$ is a rational function, all canonical meromorphic solutions $y$ can be found from the analytic continuation of the local solution ''near'' a fixed point $\gamma$ of $R$ that is either repelling ($|\lambda|>1$) or neutral with multiplier 1 ($\lambda=1$), where $\lambda=R'(\gamma)$. Other meromorphic solutions can be found by replacing $z$ to $z+E(z)$ from the canonical solutions, where $E$ is an arbitrary entire function with a period $1$. This result has been obtained through series of work by Koenig, Poincarè, Fatou, Julia, Kimura, Yanagihara, Shimomura, Baker, Liverpool, and Azarina. The case $R'(\gamma)=1$, the function $y$ is known as the Fatou coordinate, which is used to intepret the local behaviour near a neutral fixed point with multiplier 1 of a rational or entire function in the field of complex dynamics. In the case of repelling fixed points, the canonical solution can be found from the Poincarè function $h$ defined by $y(z)-\gamma=h(\lambda^z)$, where $h(w)=\alpha w+\sum_{k\geq2}h_kw^k$ with $\alpha$ as a parameter and $h_k$ depend only on $\alpha$ which can be found through a recurrence relation of a $\lambda$-difference equation $h(\lambda w)=R(h(w))-\gamma$. However, the existence of $h$ does not depend on whether $|\lambda|>1$ or $0<|\lambda|<1$ (also exists in the ''majority'' case of $|\lambda|=1$). Instead of being meromorphic, the Poincarè function in the attracting fixed point case ($0<|\lambda|<1$) admits a branch point. This result is well-known in complex dynamics as the Fatou theorem, stating that an immediate basin of attractiong of a fixed point contains a critical point. The role of function $h$ has been used similarly to the Fatou coordinate, where $h^{-1}$ is often known as the local conjugacy which maps an immediate basin of attraction of $R$ to the immediate of attraction of a function $\lambda z$. My interest in Poincarè function is in the function itself. In a joint [work](/publication/2025-02-06-manuscript-title-number-2), we show determine all the branch points of the Riemann surface of $h$ in the case $R(w)=\lambda w+w^2$. The result is that $h$ admits a Riemann surface with infinitley many sheets with only quadratic branch points, where we precisely locate all those branch points. Our argument and idea came from a paper by Mahler who studied a special solution of a Mahler equation $g(z^2)=g(z)+c$ for a constant $c$. Currently, I am investigating the case where $R$ is not a quadratic polynomial, where the Riemann surface of $h$ can have more diverse features of branch point patterns.

Another aim to study this difference equation also lies in integrable systems as well. In ODEs, one notion of integrability (the Painlevè property) can be vaguely intepreted as ''all solutions have nice singularity structures'' (there also exists other definitions of integrability). Analogous to this, we can define that the integrability of the difference equations $y(z+1)=R(y(z))$ as when all the canonical solutions are meromorphic. Ritts show that all Rational functions that admit only repelling or neutral fixed points with multiplier, with the exception of two super-attracting fixed points ($\lambda=0$) are the functions $M^{-1}NM$, where $M$ is a Möbius transformation and $N$ is either $\pm z^d$ for $d\in\mathbb{Z}$ or $\pm T_d$ where $T_d$ of the degree $d$ Tchebyshev polynomials. This notion of integrability was actually defined by Veselov where he defined from the point of view of commuting rational functions (imitating commuting flows of integrability). However, the notion of looking from the singularity structure can be seen clearly in the complication of a singularity structure of $y$ when $R$ admits an attracting fixed point.

## Functional Differential Equations and Special solutions

## Nevanlinna theory on the upper half-plane
